Hello, everyone. Welcome to a new episode of the
Dissenter. I'm your host, as always, Ricardo Lopez, and
today I'm joined by Doctor Daniel Silverman. He's an
assistant professor of political science in the Carnegie Mellon
Institute for Strategy and Technology at Carnegie Mellon University.
And today we're talking about his book Seeing His
Disbelieving, Why People Believe Misinformation in War and When
They Know Better. So, Doctor Silverman, welcome to the
show. It's a pleasure to everyone.
Thank you so much. Uh, GREAT to be here
and, and it's, it's really a unique and and
fascinating series that you, you do here, so.
Thank you. So let me start by asking you
perhaps just to give a little bit of background
to the interview. What is misinformation and how do
you sort pack from misinformation?
Yeah, absolutely. Uh, SO, um, I think it's kind
of critical in this space to differentiate between three
concepts here. Um, ONE is, um, misinformation, another disinformation,
and the third fake news. So we're, we're starting
to get our definitional ducks in a row here
in this literature, in this space, and, uh, misinfo
really is the broadest. It it means Basically, information,
claims that are false, uh, empirically false, um, Uh,
regardless of their intention, intentionality. Disinformation, right, it's a
subset of that that is the intentionally deceptive material,
and then fake news is, uh, widely seen as
sort of a piece of that, further, the smallest
piece of the sort of Russian nesting doll that
is uh intentionally deceptive information that also is meant
to mimic the way news looks. Um, TO an
audience. So, the book, I use the term misinformation
in the book, which is the broadest of those,
um, to, to, you know, make sure I'm encompassing
everything I'm, I talk about, but I'm sure various
terms will come up and there's a bunch of
different terms in the book, yeah.
And what would you say are the main, the
main domains in society where misinformation is most present
and the most pernicious?
Hm. That's a, that's a great question. I mean,
it is, it is such a, it is such
a cross-cutting, um, problem and interdisciplinary problem, um, for,
uh, you know, different fields, uh, that it can
be hard to, to see the full expanse there.
Um, AND, you know, when I teach on it,
I really get, um, students from all sorts of
areas. Um, I think that, um, we have to
look at, um, I think health and public health
as one of the, uh, the, the, the key
areas here. Uh, WHEN I, I have three sort
of special topics towards the end of the course,
health, uh, uh, climate slash environment, and, uh, and
conflict. I mean, but you know, you could go
to elections, you could go to many areas. Um,
AND I think we see it cropping up, um,
in so many parts of our lives.
In the book, you focus on misinformation in the
context of war. So what types of conflict of
violent conflict do you tackle in the book?
Um, SO the book is really pitched broadly, um,
you know, we can talk about what I empirically
focused on in the, in the cases of Pakistan,
Iraq, and Syria, um, there, but it's meant to
encompass really all situations of, of violent, um, armed
conflict. Um, THAT you can encounter because all you
really need for my theory and argument, which we'll,
I'm sure talk about to hold is that there's
sort of a variation in sort of what civilians
think and their preferences and loyalties, um, and sort
of their media diets, which of course, there will
be in every, every situation to some, you know,
in different ways, and then some are closer and
and actually live the conflict. And others are further
and sort of watch it um and through the
media, and if those basic conditions hold, you have
the potential for this this argument.
Right. And when and why is misinformation a problem
or do you think it's always a problem?
Yeah, and I think we, I think we have
to be sort of careful and responsible here. I
fully, uh, you know, embrace and welcome and tackle
these sorts of challenges. I have students debate them
in my, in my, uh, course on misinfo and
fake news, they have several structured debates, and one
of the motions is the threat of misinformation is
overblown, um, and they come with evidence and arguments
on each side. And so, um. I don't think
we should be overstating the problem. That said, I
do think it is a real problem. I think
we've had a sort of a bit of a
pendulum there, um, from maybe overamplification during the COVID
phase or earlier research, and then now there's maybe
a a a pendulum swing the other way, and,
and clearly it's um it's in the middle, and
I think you see it being um more especially
pernicious in some areas, just circling back to your
other question. Yeah. And I'd highlight areas like public
health and like elections, um, and to some extent
conflict where People were, because it's it's acting on
the individual. Right, it's, it's, it's a question of
individual beliefs and the propagation of those. And so
sit sort of domains in which just decentralized individual
behavior is really important, like whether individuals decide to
get a vaccine shot or not, or how they
choose to vote, um, and there are some analogs
in conflict, um, or maybe where you see it,
rear its head most powerfully.
AND in the context of war, specifically, what kinds
of misinformation can we find? I mean, which aspects
of war are targets of misinformation?
Um, YEAH, I, I think, um, and it, I
think it is a real problem and more and
I think you do see, um, of course I
do. I wrote the book on that, um, for
that reason. I think you do see some different
sort of categories or buckets of, of, um, of
it. And, and this isn't the primary argument in
the book, but something I've just sort of observed
in the context of studying it, I think there
are two big ones I'd highlight. One I think
is um Broadly, what I would say sort of
call misinformation about, um, you could say power. Um,
AND, and performance in war. So really, who's winning
and losing, uh, gaining and, and, um, territory or
retreating, uh, stronger and weaker and all those sorts
of things. And the other one is sort of,
um, deception and manipulation about, um, you know, you
could say behavior or harm slash care, um. Or
victimhood, whatever you wanna call it. This is really
the the the bucket of atrocity propaganda. A lot
of it, right? Where we're gonna highlight and emphasize
all the terrible things, and of course many terrible
things are done in war to our side, um,
and, uh, deny them in reverse. And um I
think though there's one that's one way to think
about it, and you see across different cases, um,
you know, that some one of those categories is
more emphasized than than um another. Happy to talk
about that if you like.
Yes, and do we know if people easily fall
for misinformation related to war?
Um, THAT'S a good question. I mean, I think
certainly they do fall for misinformation, wartime misinformation, just
like we are all vulnerable to, uh, all sorts
of different, um, falsehoods in our lives, uh. I
think there are some features of war that may
make The problem, particularly severe, um, you know, the
intense emotional nature of war, especially some kinds of
wars and early on. Um, Uh, YOU would I
have to look at the, the, the powerful way
media becomes a weapon that's controlled, co-opted or biased
in war, um, because the combat, you know, parties
have incentives to, to, to do that, um. You
know, so some of, some of the ways that
war is so cognitively difficult and challenging to even
um navigate or accept, uh, Um, some of the
things that are done or the idea of it
hitting your community. So, I think there are some
factors that may make it, um, you know, add
to the problem. It's, it, you know, but baseline
we should expect that there's susceptibility just as there
is susceptibility elsewhere, um, though, as I argue in
the book, there are some features of war that
also if, if you're in a certain, if you're
in certain parts of it, um, can cut against
that.
Mhm. Uh, BUT isn't misinformation sort of commonplace in
war? I mean, we many times hear about war
propaganda. Shouldn't we expect it from all sides in
the war?
I mean, I think so. I think that's right.
I think that's a reasonable baseline expectation, um, that
when you have these um societies or communities mobilized
for this extremely high stakes armed struggle, they're going
to have strong incentives to um engage in, to
manipulate um the information space and engage in um
strategic communications sort of warfare. Uh, AS, as well
as offline warfare, and, and we just saw this
with the India-Pakistan uh conflict, um. Where Pakistan, um,
the Pakistani government had a, uh, a sort of
a ban on um Twitter usage, um, due to,
you know, sort of extremely polarized situation in their
own society and the military, not wanting, um, supporters
of, of the populist leader Imran Khan to Um,
the agitating on there, and they lifted it during
the, the war, the brief war saying we are,
are getting blasted online, um, and overwhelmed with India's
communication power. We need to make sure we're out
there advocating for our side. India and in uh,
you know, Indian nationalists were doing thinking similarly. So
I think you see the, the incentives that even
admitting of those incentives and that that will happen
everywhere in all conflicts.
Mhm. And what are the consequences of misinformation during
war? What kinds of consequences can it have?
Um, I think it overall is, uh, should be
viewed as a, as a danger, um, as a
threat, um. You know, it is generally, I think,
designed to um provoke and to incite. Um, CERTAINLY
the atrocity, all that, the second category I highlighted,
all the atrocity propaganda, um, is to, um, you
know, enrage and, and incite and mobilize, um, your
followers and other audiences who can support you. Um,
AND so from there we can think about how
it can lead to greater, uh, support, um, for,
uh, wartime combatants, um, you know, contributions in various
ways, even, even people participating in violence, and I
think Some of the, uh, you know, I think
it's an issue across wars, but sometimes when there's
sort of communal mass violence is when it can
be really dangerous because, um, like we, I was
sort of earlier saying, when, you know, you have
individual decentralized behavior, that's when um people's beliefs can
easily translate into action. So when you're looking at,
um, you know, ethnic mob riots in India. Uh,
OR Sri Lanka or wherever, um, you know, maybe
that's, um, where you can even see it more
directly, uh, precipitating violence, but I think, um, Contributing
to wars, uh, lengthening and intensifying, you can see
uh uh many cases.
Do we have a good understanding of the extent
to which wartime misinformation might translate into actual behaviors
like wars getting started or sparking more violence or
people participating in wars and other kinds of social
conflict?
Yeah, and that's a great question. I like how
you phrased that just asking us, do we have
that understanding, what do we know? I mean, I
do think that that is that we can, first
of all, I'll say, I mean, we can see
their their connections and contributions there, um. You know
that, first of all, there's, we should think theoretically
that there's a reason that You know, wartime actors,
combatants engage in, go to such lengths to manipulate
uh public uh perceptions of the facts on the
ground about pain and suffering and who's doing what.
Um, SO, Just off the bat there, um, You
know, there there's should privilege us or, you know,
push us to think that there's um there's value
there, um. And um and I think then that
that also theoretically, you know, if you're creating grievances,
you know, that's one of the most central things
in conflict. If you're in, you know, facilitating and
entrenching people's grievances towards each other, um, we have
a lot of that research on how that matters.
Um, I think in terms of specifically, like hard
research, drawing, showing the consequences of misinformation, I think
that's one of the areas that is Um, that
there, there should absolutely be more work there that's
one of the hardest things to demonstrate, to independently
show. What a misinformation narrative, how it um changes
behavior in any sphere, um, and I think some
folks are working on it. Um, BUT I think
we can look at some cases and really a
detailed understanding of cases, whether that is. The, the,
uh, your strong campaign in Pakistan, which we might
talk about or that's Nazi propaganda and misinformation in
World War 2, and I think we can all
there flesh out a pretty compelling story about how
some of this has mattered too.
Yeah. By the way, before we delve into the
main argument of your book, uh, when it comes
to wartime misinformation, has there been lots of work
done on it for a long time, or is
it something more recent?
Well, I certainly thought there was an opening there,
and I think, I, I, I think that's, that's
right. I mean, I think. You know, there's certainly,
there's been, I, I saw these as these two
sort of ships, you know, these big, big, uh,
You know, ships that were out there on the
on on the water, there's this vast body of
work on um conflict and and especially kind of
increasingly on the The sort of ground level dynamics
of conflict and um even individual a lot of
public opinion work now um on conflict and how
sort of people really think in in in such
situations. And on the other hand, there's, you know,
there had been a really blowing up this body
of research on misinformation. I hadn't seen. Um, THE
collision of those very much. There are a couple
of articles um that have come out, but, um,
there hadn't really been a a real serious social
science book, um, that I'd seen trying to. Really
focus in on and tackle that problem. Certainly there
um there's a lot that I have to say
I I built on. There's old work on um
wartime propaganda. There's work in um by people who
are uh journalists and people in communications on, on
uh media and war and propaganda and more. So,
but on this, uh, uh, trying to look, really
theorize and analyze belief and misinformation in war. Um,
AND, and, and it, you know, more. Protracted way
at a book length way, um, I think there
was not that much on that.
And why do you think that's the case?
Um, I mean, I think sort of misinformation studies
had only sort of blown up, uh, You know,
some years earlier, um, with, um, Trump's election and
and Brexit and, and then COVID. So, you know,
that was only uh emerging. There had been, of
course, studies of conspiracy theories for years in psychology,
but You know, so that was picking up steam,
um, at the same time, people were increasingly sort
of digging into that micro level of conflict, um,
because they had the tools to do so more
in the last couple decades, um, to get really
rich data from conflict, uh. At the individual level.
And so I think there were some methods, reasons
and and some new theory things that were coming
out and um but uh but I hadn't seen
them fully collide there there yet.
Right, so let's. AN argument of your book then,
do we know which factors contribute to people's susceptibility
to embracing misinformation in war?
Well, I certainly hope so. I, I, uh, yeah,
I, I hone in on two key, um, sort
of pieces. So one is motivation, um, what I
call motivation, and the other is information. Um, I
think these do build on two of the big
branches of what influences people's sort of factual beliefs
and beliefs and misinformation in general. Um, AND there
are other branches, and I can, I can get
to those if you like. But how they see
how I see them playing out here, when I
say motivation, what I mean is, Sort of how
you approach new information. What's your, you know, your
psychological motivation when you do so, and there's a
lot of work on how people have often, um,
Uh, sort of engage in in that through a
motivated reasoning lens, um. Uh, AND often we want
to, uh, protect our and entrench and reinforce our
identities. Um, THERE'S something called IPC identity Protective cognition
in, in the US it's often partisan identities, a
lot of research on this, or it can be
racial or ethnic identities. Um, AND, and so we
often approach this from new info in a biased
way, um, and, and try to align it with
our, our factual beliefs and select our information sources
as well to do so. Um, AND yet, I
think all that research is right, um, is important.
And it, yet it has somewhat um forgotten a
little bit of a a piece of its roots
in the classic social psychology side, where uh a
motivated bias or a directional motive was always the
term. WAS contrasted with having an accuracy motive, which
means that, yes, you, we sometimes have bias biases
of various strengths, but some we can also have
a desire to really get it right. Um, AND
the, the, the sort of classic theory there was
that when the stakes are raised for us of
the issue or topic or situation, we'll often engage
in a more thorough search for information and in
a more objective and even-handed processing processing of, and
that's been shown in the lab. And so the
application of that here is to say that Um,
with misinformation in, in something like war. Uh, YES,
we have these loyalties and attitudes in, in, in
conflict, uh, you know, you know, if we're in
a situation in a, a conflict, we may, uh,
you know, like in, in support the rebels or
the regime more or other actors or, or, you
know, maybe that there's bombing done by an outside
power that's, you know, maybe it's detested and and
and a civilian thinks that power has, um, you
know, a sort of sinister motives. And so we'll
have a motivated bias, that person will, to believe
that the actual events um and what happened matched
their perception of the actor, right? And that they,
the motivation that they think the actor had that
that maybe the bombing was indiscriminate. Um, AND yet,
There's an accuracy motive that kicks in, and I
argue when people are are are really experiencing more
because there's tremendous variation in that of You know,
war is so mediatized and social mediatized with millions
of people viewing it now. Um, FOR, for good
and ill, and yet there's these frontline populations that
really live with the horrors of war, um, in,
in eastern Ukraine, in Gaza, and in, in, in
Iraq, wherever it is. And, um, you know, I'm
talking about not just countries but Swaths of countries,
areas, communities, villages. And they will have a powerful
manifestation of this accuracy motivation to say, because why?
THEIR lives can depend on it, their welfare. They
need to know, should we flee this bombing or
not? Should I, uh, uh, you know, try to
give information. To the state authorities against the Islamic
State in my villages, well, is there an opportunity
to do that? What's the the the Islamic State
doing to us? Is it? Is that true or
not? Um, WHAT are the beliefs, what am I
understanding of the state's behavior towards? And so, When
they have a more powerful accuracy motive to really
make sure they have as much as they can
to grasp of that information about what's happening um
around in their community. So that can create a
cleavage and then informationally, I argue you get a
reinforcement of that because of course, we can have
informational biases um of all sorts, and the media,
as I said, can really be a weapon in
more, um, and so, We all have our biased
media spheres we can fall into and in more,
of course, the same, but for those frontline populaces,
um, they will also be able to get more
accurate and direct and local information relatively, um, because
they are close to the scene of the crime
and information spreads, um, horizontally via word of mouth
and communal accumulated knowledge as well. And so both
of these kind of align. And there's one thing
we can talk about where it's a two two-pronged
theory, it can be hard to split those mechanisms,
but they both align and they kind of can
create this powerful gap where these uh sort of
exposed communities both have the greater means. And motives
to know what's happening in war, and the opposite's
true with people that are removed, who are really
powerful, of course, audience and fright, various audiences and
conflict too, so. That leads to the ultimate conclusion
of the book. Seeing is disbelieving, and it's not
the only Dimension here, but I think it's a
really important one.
So do the media themselves then contribute to these
informational biases?
Yeah, they they absolutely do. I mean, we shouldn't
take that as just this fixed uh uh thing,
um, you know, or, you know, one way of
thinking about this, I'm not saying that people who
are removed from war will automatically be brainwashed. Um,
THEY will just be susceptible. There will be more
room or space for all of the sort of
factual distortions and biases that we have in our
lives about the events. So, uh, You know, They
may, it will depend on the direction of the
bias, the media's bias. And their own orientation, um,
but they, they, if, if those things push them,
um, to be biased about what's happening in a
conflict, um, it, they can certainly fall prey to
it.
And on the more motivational side of things, which
kinds of motivations can people have to that make
them understand the information more accurately or not?
Well, um, I think it's really this survival motive
that is very powerful and unique to these communities
in war. I mean, it's, it's an accuracy drive
in general, but it's like a powerful version of
it, you know, the in, in the, um, and
you can see, um, glimmers of this. I mean,
we all, we all experience it to some extent.
When we get anxious. You know, about something, uh,
it can be that we need to desperately search
for some information um about for let's say, uh,
uh, something we don't understand that we're gonna teach
or do in an interview, um, or there's just
a feeling of, of threat, and, and so, oh
my God, there's gonna be these tariffs, or there
was this incident, um, that happened, these crimes, or
possibly even a terrorist attack. I need to know
something about that. I need to know this information.
And you know, this is sort of um anxiety-based
learning. I'm forgetting the Aim of the theoretical model
and um affective. Forget that one. I'll have to
get back to you about that. But that's a
key idea and Sort of how we learn, um,
and so, um, when, when there's that that same
process can occur, I think, even more powerfully, uh,
in, in war when you're really, when your survival
is at stake, when the lives of you, you
yourself and your family are on the line. Um,
THEY'RE, you're gonna be pretty unflinching in your desire
to make sure you can understand the threats, and,
you know, you can look at people and, um,
you know, there's some amazing quotes, um, in all
sorts of conflicts. Um, I remember one, from the
blitz in Britain, um, where it was a, um,
Uh, uh, I think a secret British intelligence report,
um, noting that because early on with the Blitz,
the, the Nazis scored some, uh, sort of successes
in hitting British cities, and, um, the British government
was sort of concealing and covering up the extent
of the damage, um, and sort of projecting this
stiff upper lip. Mentality and uh um the the
intelligence report was saying that people there's demand for
more true and accurate information. So people were, even
though there was this great threat, they wanted to
know more. There was an accuracy search. Um, AND
then the same way you can look in, you
know, maybe in US, uh, Pakistan, uh, drone case,
uh, they're the people in the, the Northwest Territories
that really experienced that. There's some amazing, uh, or
striking quotes as well, um. Talking about how it's
so different if it's a lived experience for for
for them, um, and it affects their day to
day decision making and these sort of broad moral
narratives about it being a sovereignty violation and and
and sort of a continuation of um US, you
know, aggression and this and that, which, you know,
we could debate, they might be right, um, morally,
but they don't think about that morally that way,
and they, and so there's this quote about how
they only get sort of a wounded smile from
a a tribesman, um, who has to live thinking
about this in their daily choices.
Mhm. So let me just ask you a little
bit about methodology here before we get into a
few examples of war conflicts that you explore in
the book. So empirically, how do you study people's
factual beliefs and biases in war? What kinds of
methodological approaches are there?
Yeah, great question. Um, I think that um the
book, you know, you have to get to the
micro level for sure with this. You're studying populations,
individuals, and their uh perceptions and beliefs. So the
tools that we have to do that, you know,
you can look at qualitative and quantitative tools, quantitatively
talking about public opinion surveys and maybe um survey
experiments, um, and the book does deploy. There's a
lot of opinion data that I try to pack
in there from existing sources like Pew. You know,
bringing just so we have some context and descriptive
understanding of the attitudes in somewhere like Pakistan, um,
and then some surveys that I was able to
get my hands on myself or fielded myself, um,
and then, um. Uh, YOU know, so you have
that, that sort of quantitative side, and then, you
know, qualitatively, um, there's interviews and, and focus groups
and other things, and the book uses some interviews,
uh, from that were done in Syria. They were
actually thankfully, uh, um, made available to me by
a colleague who um did them and used them
in, in, in his book, a couple 100 interviews
with Syrian refugees in Turkey for a really more
dense qua qualitative picture. So, Both of those are
really useful. It is a I think mixed methods
can be powerful here. Um, AND, and then I'd
say lastly that you also should just have a,
a, a deep and well read, hopefully qualitative knowledge
of the context and um you should really try
to know the anecdotal empirical record. Um, WHICH is,
I think, a term that another scholar, Stathis Kalyvas
uses, who's a, a noted conflict scholar, um. I
don't know if you've interviewed him. Did you interview?
No, no, OK, you've interviewed so many great people
and, and, and I think a number of, uh,
of, of, you know, prolific conflict scholars, um. That
you should be sort of hopefully dripping with that
knowledge, um, that you can use to really Flesh
out and breathe life into your theories, um, too.
Mhm. So let's uh illustrate all of what we've
been talking about here with some examples of war
conflicts. So could you tell us about the example
of the US drone campaign in the tribal regions
of Pakistan?
Yes, absolutely. This became a key case in the
book, uh, it was sort of happenstance, um, but
I wound up being connected and embedded with, um,
you know, I was interested in the broader Middle
East and Islamic world, um, with the Pakistani communities
in the US and then traveling to Pakistan and
have um some close collaborators there who helped. Um,
AND, you know, it's a situation that was salient,
you know, at at the time I was writing,
there were these debates about the US drone campaign
in Pakistan, and were they, were they sort of,
was there a blowback or not, these terms. I
started to realize there was just tremendous variation in
Pakistani perceptions of what was happening and even sort
of factual perceptions. And so what are the facts
first of all, um, there, you know, this became
sort of an extension of the Afghan war, um,
it was, you know, started, we were militant groups,
um, that were, uh, sort of based in or
had or getting some sanctuary in the um The
tribal regions of Pakistan, Pakistan's a large diverse country
of 200, 250 million people, but there's just one
slice of it, um, called, uh, the Northwest uh
uh territories of tribal regions of Pakistan. Um. And
it's commonly referred to as Fatah. So uh the
federally administered tribal areas, um, and it's sort of
these borderlands. This one small slice of Pakistan on
the Afghan border, and it's long been relatively ungoverned
and volatile and had significant challenges with Islamist militancy,
um, and some groups like the Pakistani Taliban, as
well as some of the groups really active in
Afghanistan, um, were heavily based there. And so, As
on through the course of this war and the
Bush and and then you know, perhaps even more
so the Obama years, um, there came to be
this this significant um US um use of armed
uh drones, unmanned vehicles as one of the ways
along with the Pakistani military operations too, um, to
sort of in their view, try to meet this
challenge and target. Um, THE militant, uh, key leaders
and degrade these groups, um, that were, uh, you
know, key to destabilizing Afghanistan and, and Pakistan, um.
To a degree. And so, you know, we can
have all sorts of discussions and debates about this
as well as sort of broader Use of drone
warfare, in fact, not taking moral positions on that.
What I'm looking at is this question of factually
what happened and then You know, perceptions and misperceptions
around that in Pakistan. And it became a really
salient issue in Pakistani society. Of course, understandably, there's
a lot of suspicion and um I think what
word to use best here. Um, You know, mistrust
and and uh baggage towards the US in Pakistan,
um, as a result of US foreign policy towards
the country over decades, and, um, and towards Afghanistan
and so on. And so, um, and, and, and
there came to be a real Uh, sort of
explosion of of protests, um, hundreds if not thousands
of protests against these drones during the height of
the campaign, um, uh, and, and ultimately, and some
of them became, you know, sort of armed or
violent protests. There were a number of attacks stopping,
um, Pakistan um was sort of the key. Um,
uh, SUPPLY, um, route to Afghanistan from the Pakistani
ports in the south of the country. Um, ULTIMATELY
they had to be rerouted so that it went
more extensively through Central Asia. Um, AND so the
US scaled back its presence in Pakistan. Um, THERE
were some other flash points too, but the, the
drone campaign, the use of Pakistani territory for it
and the uh killings in, um, The tribal regions
became a political flashpoint, um, and ultimately helped, uh,
were one factor that helped elect uh the gentleman
I mentioned earlier, Imran Khan, who's played a key
role and and still does in current Pakistani politics.
So politically influential. The key with the misperceptions is
that, um, in fact, uh, in this case, in,
in despite what we might say about them, um,
in other ways that they were a relatively targeted
and low civilian casualty compared to militants, uh, instantiation
of political violence. Um, IN the tribal regions, and
that's not what people would have believed. You can
imagine how their, their motivated biases, how their media
environment would have pushed them in the other direction,
um, with all the things the US has done
in Pakistan and Afghanistan, they would have, most Pakistanis
would, would have been easy to believe and easy
for elites to whip up a sentiment that they're,
they're indiscriminate uh death machines. And scourges killing scores
of civilians all the time, and there there were
mistakes, but by and large that's not true, and
there's evidence from WikiLeaks where Pakistani officials uh admit
um that that's not true. Um THERE'S um various
forms, there's even some public admissions that are a
few things as the campaign bore on. Um, AND
of course, most people from the tribal areas do
not think that is true and, and know that
that is not true, and that's key here. If
you actually listen and speak to them, they will
say, look, we're no friend of the US, but
mostly that was targeting the key militants, um, and
it, and, you know, there were some mistakes and
it and they were annoying and disruptive. They sometimes
have a term referring to them as insects. Um,
BUT they were not causing mass civilian deaths. Um,
IT'S, and, and, and it was the Pakistani army's
heavy-handed, uh, military campaigns, um, dropping heavy bombs on
villages and having operations that cleared areas. Um, AND
it was the Pakistani Taliban's use of, of terror
and efforts to coercively control their society that they
knew comparatively were much um more indiscriminate in nature.
And, and now there are even some pretty rigorous
research studies. At first this was sort of a
hypothesis. Um, And you could hear different things, um,
but by now the best, and there were some
NGOs that had, I think, a political motive pushing
back on it, um. There are now multiple research
studies, the best research studies, not by me but
by Pakistani political scientists. Two of them interviewing hundreds
of people who were displaced from the tribal areas,
um, one by a gentleman named Akhil Shah, um,
that's published in their public pieces in the Washington
Post and elsewhere, and another by, um, Uh, uh,
female scholar Nehan Sari, um, who last I checked
was a doctoral student at Harvard, may, may have
graduated, um, has also written about this, and, and
I think it's a part of her dissertation work.
So, and, and, and various others in the country,
journalists and scholars, and really when you look at
this whole ball of evidence, and this whole understanding
of what goes on there, um, it's quite clear
that um there is this gap, a powerful gap
where the local population. Um, IS thinking very differently
than this broader population, um, that was mobilized against
the campaign. And so it's just a very clear
and, and fascinating and powerful case of of that
sort of proximity based belief situation.
Mhm. How about the Syrian civil war, how have
the sorts of phenomena we talked about here, uh,
manifested there?
Yeah, I'm sure. I'm happy to talk about that
one. THE other case was a rock and it
points in a similar, um, direction, a little more
quantitatively. I wound up studying that one. And then
I was very lucky and fortunate to be able
to study, to get my hands on some data
information to let me dig into the case in
Syria because it's such a different case. It's um
Iraq and Pakistan, when, when people see what I
looked at and analyzed there, and it was sort
of Happenstance in a way, they say, well, you're
just looking at sort of this US violence and
people's perceptions about that maybe being overblown. And that
can lead to some sort of questions and uh
uh you know, how is this really a general?
Syria is so different. It's a many-sided civil war.
It was thankfully ended recently. Um, IT was not
heavily about the US and and anti-US insurgency, um,
and there were all sorts of misbeliefs, um, that,
uh, I was able to look at. I was
thankfully, I think I mentioned able to get my
hands on a couple 100 really rich interviews. Done
by um a a great uh scholar, uh, Justin
Scho, and for his book Surviving the war in
Syria. Um, And um he asked really about their
detailed choices during the war, about their migration paths.
He was interested, among other things, but he crucially
did ask several questions about um their belief in
rumors. And he wrote a nice piece on this,
but I felt like there was more to mine
and more to exploit. So I asked him for
that, um, a colleague and collaborative and friend, he,
he was happy to give them to me, and
I sort of mined those transcripts. Qualitatively and quantitatively,
and I was able to get info on people's
really paint a picture of what rumors they believed.
In Syria, and there were all sorts of rumors
believed, um, rumors about the Assad's death constantly cropping
up, and many people knew those were false, but
there was manipulation about which, you know, sides were
winning, people hiding atrocities, and, and it's harrowing stuff
sometimes, and but you see glimmers of of people
who are more exposed, um, you know, of course,
you can see this in the text qualitatively. Saying
that the regime told us that there was no
massacre, but I went to the square and I
saw the bodies in the trees and all these
horrible things. But you see how people who really
are there and are seeing things and and they
know over time that the media is going to
be lying to them, and they have these bases
from which to form um more accurate and informed
beliefs. And then quantitatively, he had a key question
saying um how confident are you in your ability
to discern fact of or whether rumors were true
and false, and I could I I show, it's
a couple 100 people, but there's very suggestive. And
and I think nicely supportive, complimentary with the other.
Piece of the book Relationships showing that people who
were in Syria longer, people who saw, said they
saw more different types of um like uh violence,
all these things really strongly correlate with people saying
they are uh more confident, have a greater uh
discernment ability uh in the war. And so, it
sort of paints this different picture. I think that
helps, I hope, flesh out uh what is going
on and show applies in a lot of different
situations and to a lot of um different uh
rumors and types of misinfo.
Can you comment on what's been happening in Ukraine
and Gaza? I mean, these are probably the most,
uh, prominent or if not prominent, at least the
ones that are the, the two armed conflicts that
are the most salient on the news right now.
So do we see similar phenomena playing out there?
Of course, of course, and it depends how much
time you have in terms of trying to comment
on those, you could, you could have long discussions
of each, and, and I, I, you know, I,
I was making a face as you were doing
that because they're both tragic, tragic situations, um. But
I think you do see these dynamics, um, sort
of manipulation of facts and misinformation has been powerful
in both, um, and it was striking to me.
I remember and I wrote about this, I think
in the book's preface, because I was like completing
this book. Um, THAT I'd started on these other
conflicts way earlier, and I was like, wow, this,
um, this is really powerful, what's happening? And I,
and, and very emotional, and I'm connected to some
of those conflicts, and I was like, it's, it
was pretty wild to see all the people, and
even myself sometimes, you know, being susceptible to misinfo,
um, but also at the same time seeing some
of those limits. So I mean in in the
Russian Ukrainian conflict, um, I think there's been misinformation
on both sides, but much more on the Russian
by the Russian side. Um, THERE is something to
that, by the way. And in terms of the
variation in which side pours out more misinfo. I
think you asked or you sort of got a
maybe a question about this earlier. You know, I
think that the parties and the combatants and where
they have more to hide in terms of our
committing more atrocities, and also maybe are not performing
as well, are where you will see more factual
manipulation, um, and so Russia's pushed, poured out plenty
of that, um, about the The alleged Nazis and
notification of of Ukraine and the leadership and all
this, as well as hiding some of their setbacks
and defeats and Um, some of the atroc they've
had atrocity propaganda going back years in Ukraine, the,
the quote unquote crucified boy. With something that they
pushed in the Donbass War in 2014, 2015 um
on uh um. Art, um, what's the channel, one
of the state TV channels, Russian one, was it,
um, claiming that, uh, there was a, you know,
a, a boy in a Russian speaking boy in
eastern Ukraine who'd been literally crucified by Ukrainian soldiers,
and it turned out to be totally false and
there was a whole scandal and apology and everything.
And so, um. You know, there there clearly is,
is this um massive propaganda pushed by Russia and,
and some, some a little bit by Ukraine too,
and, but you see that it's not been very
effective and influential on Ukrainians, um, Ukrainian including especially,
I think, eastern Ukrainians, um, and Ukrainians in the
contested areas, um, where, you know, there are really
striking quotes saying when you're bombed. It changes your
mind about things, and those would be some of
the populations that, you know, might have not been
as much slamming the door in some ways on
Russia in the past due to some more linguistic
and ethnic and other ties. Um, SO that's a
sensitive issue, of course, they're uh part of the
Ukrainian community. But, uh, but I think we see
some of that falling flat, and, and two, we
see it falling flat um with Russian soldiers. That's
another area. It's not all just civilians, um, and
people debunking things on social media, but soldiers are
in a way, there's also population that experiences war,
and there there's variability there and how much, what
they see. Um, AND how indoctrinated they are, but
you get all these stories of Russian soldiers, and
I view many of them as, as victims too,
thrown into this meat grinder, um. And saying this
isn't what we were sent to do. We realized
as soon as we got there, we, there was
this population with bristling hostility to us, and we
weren't liberators, um, and the New York Times had
some intercepted calls from Russian soldiers back home saying,
Mom, this is horrible, we don't know what we're
doing here. And so that's part of the reason
Putin has had such a vicious clampdown on soldiers,
um, political maybe Propagation and activity back home. There's
was it's an NGO called the Committee for the
Union of Soldiers' Mothers that has been historically active
in Russia. If not, he's either disbanded it or
suppressed it. Um, AND I think they represent one
of the real ways, along with maybe people ethnic
ties between Ukrainians and Russians, many of them have
family, and they call each other, even still to
this day through the war. Um, AND so there
are ways through which the information spreads back into
Russia, and you can see Putin trying and the
Kremlin clamp down on that, um, and we could
talk about the, the handful of Ukrainian, um, stories
and conspiracy theories too. There's not been no misinformation
on that side. um. But you can see some
of that happening even even as It's not really
one. Um, HAPPY to talk about Gaza too, of
course, a terribly ugly tragic conflict, um, and I
think you have uh misinfo, um, and, and conspiracy
theories, um, and hate speech and all the other
informational bads on all sides. Um, I will say
both of these are are sort of interstate conflicts
in my view. Israel Gaza is a difficult one,
but You don't, in, in part of what it's
Civil War. You know, you do have these population
mixing more, um. And, and you get a little
bit more, a little less scope for what I'm
talking about in like Israel, Gaza, because It's all
self-reinforcing, right? For Israelis, they've they saw this horrible
atrocity on October 7th, and then their media, of
course, and, and they, they had this trauma, and
historical trauma maybe it built on and and then
their media environment sort of ran with that. And
um And so that's all sort of the the
the the motivated biases and the media biases will
reinforce the the real real events. And so you
don't have, you know, there is some of this
proximity thing, I think in Israel based on soldiers,
some of them, what what they have seen. In
Gaza, as well as uh hostages, what some of
the hostages have seen and some of their dissent
and saying, what are you doing? You're, you're bombing
us and we see what you're doing and, you
know, some of their agitation against the, the BB
Netanyahu government. Um, BUT it's a little more of
that mutually reinforcing set of issues. Um, OF course,
you can see plenty of misinformation about what they've
done. In in Gaza, and they, there's a lot
they're trying to conceal and hide from the international
community, as well as maybe even their own audiences,
um, and all this stuff about Hollywood and saying
they're um crisis actors, um, any narrative basically ever
historically where you say that there's crisis actors is
pretty much should baseline be viewed as false, um,
because crisis actors means, you know, the term. Uh,
YES, right, that that there's sort of actors pretending
that to actually be suffering in in in in
a war and emergency situation. It, it. It suggests
that there's a false flag attack. And historically false
flags are extremely hard to pull off and very
rarely done, you know, Hitler tried them against Poland
and all sorts of things. And so they're almost
always the fodder of conspiracy theories and, and not
reality, Sandy Hook and this and that. So, um,
on the other side, there there, I think it's
very sensitive and politically contentious, but um there is
misinformation as well, um, and, and fake news, um.
You know, there's a powerful international constituencies that are
activated and mobilized about what's happened on both the
Israeli and Palestinian sides. There are claims that uh
107 was an inside job or that they're crisis
actors, and there's, um, in these videos of, you
know, the kids crying about their killed parents and
so I mean that's misinformation too, and there's Extreme
versions of what happened about sexual violence and this
and that, um. That we'd have to look at
is also fed by motivated and media biases, and
the other one, I think the one where you
can see the argument holding, well, maybe best is
And it's really hard to know, and we should
have humility and uncertainty about this, is public opinion
within Gaza. Um, I think though there are some
pretty strong indications that, uh, Gazans have a sort
of a pox on both your house's mentality, many
of them, which happens pretty commonly in war. There's
a study of the Syrian civil war, um, about
what happens when the Syrian regime uses barrel bombing
on its, uh, used barrel bombing on its population.
Of course, one of the worst tactics you can
do in war, you'd expect it to, uh, generate
immense animosity against the regime, and the authors find,
um, with a very clever design that it created,
um, Anger at both the regime and the rebels
for their inability, their provoking of the regime, bringing
the wrath of the regime down in these communities
with an inability to protect them from that. Um,
AND that's a common theme you see in war
in Chechnya and elsewhere. And so I think you
see that quite clearly in Gaza, um, where there,
of course, there's tremendous anger and hate about what
Israel has done, but there's no love lost and
quite a bit of anger about what Hamas has
done to, um, With a real understanding of uh
motivated understanding of reality, cause the lived reality and
experienced reality uh of what many of them have
felt where Hamas hasn't been able to protect them.
They provoked Israel to, you know, and then kind
of hid hid selfishly in the shadows. Um, AND
I, I do think there's really strong glimmers and,
and, um, various, uh, Arab writers, Hussein I and
others, many others, and Sort of media, detailed media
investigations of this show that, as well as even
public opinion patterns, um, that even the polling is
hard to do now, but it suggests Hamas popularity
is down in um Gaza up in the West
Bank, where the experiences have been very different. Um,
AND I think So you do see some powerful
ways, Israel, Palestine is maybe a tricky case with
some mutually reinforcing bubbles and biases, but that this
does play out in that case, as difficult as
it is for us to accept. And I think
it leads to the conclusions and implications of the
book, which is hard as it is for us
to do, we have to try to look at
and lift up these voices of these communities that
actually experience the horrors and the complexities, and not
just our own video game. Um, SENSATIONS of what
we want to happen and which side we support.
Mhm. So finally, I would like to ask you
just a couple of questions about what we can
do with the knowledge you present in your book.
So, Can we learn something new about topics such
as the duration of armed conflicts, the feasibility of
pre prevailing counterinsurgency models and the depths and limits
of misperceptions more broadly in social and political life.
Yeah, I think so. I hope so, certainly, um,
and uh there's several bits there. I'll try my
best to talk about them. Um, THOSE are really
some of the things I tried to run with
in the book's conclusion. Um, AS far as implications
for conflict, um, I think we can see how
this model. Does impact things like um the duration
of war, yes, and Things like counterinsurgency. So take
war duration. Um, WHAT I tried to get at
there is that there will be this gap very
often. Uh, BETWEEN the local populations that have experienced
the cost and fully recognized them of war, and
the more removed populations that don't. And then you
can imagine the strength and size of those two
constituencies can vary, in particular, where you have powerful
diasporas. It is one reason why you can, you
can see how war can be perpetuated by those
diasporas who will be not experiencing, if you're aggrieved
about what's happening but removed from it, that's where
you'll be most susceptible to that factual manipulation towards
your side. Um, AND so diasporas can be a
big part of that, maybe areas with small conflict
zones, but large external sympathetic communities. Um, Uh, YOU
know, and so I think it shines a light
on, uh, some ways in which war is likely
to be um may may be perpetuated longer um
in new ways. Um, AND counterinsurgency, I think it
speaks to, you know, maybe that's a hopeful in
some ways faded term now, counterinsurgency at least as
it was such a hot topic of study in
Western circles, maybe during the post 9/11 wars, um.
But Um, but I think there were these models
that had some merit and they were backed up
by some rigorous research about how, um, About sort
of winning the winning hearts and minds and at
the local level and showing that various kinds of
actions, um, you know, avoiding um too much collateral
damage or providing services and payments to local communities
was pretty effective empirically in gaining more support and
tamping down violence in some of these conflict zones
like Iraq and Afghanistan and the Philippines and elsewhere,
not all the US based ones. Um. And there's
some rigorous sort of econ and poli sci research
on that, but it was very local. It was
always very localized. And I do think it's real,
but we have to reckon with the fact that
that those are the communities where those carrots and
sticks are being used, they're being recognized accurately, those
signals, and that's why we expect, we get the
expected behavioral consequences. Um, If you then have media
broadcasting those much more broadly, you can have the
exact opposite thing happening at the same time, and
that's what we see in a case like Pakistan,
where the best, I think empirical research suggests that
the US drone campaign was locally effective, not just
that it was pretty targeted it, but in this
case in Pakistan, it was pretty locally effective in,
um, you know, tamping down militancy, um. You know,
within these uh tribal agencies, very small part of
Pakistan. At the same time, I, I would venture
to say it was fairly counterproductive nationally and maybe
internationally and because partially of misperceptions. Um, FEEDING a
very anti-drone politics. Um, AND so I think you're
gonna have both at the same time and the
points towards some of the limits in ways we
should be pretty cautious about this sort of very
rational, rationalist counterinsurgency models that people think uh can
can work. Those are two implications for conflict and
conflict theories. Um, I think there are others and
we should think about this local national gap, but
what I wanted to get to is sort of
OK, what do we do about all this? What
does it lead us or suggest that maybe we
should do? I mean, it's a very hard problem.
I'm not saying we're gonna get out there and
You know, fix it immediately, but it does, I
think, point towards a little bit of a solution
set or or like a a a set of
strategies to try to mitigate things, which is that
um this local non-local gap can be not just
a problem but a possible solution. Because it suggests
that if you can elevate and amplify the volume
of these frontline populations, which are purveyors of truth
relatively towards uh uh relative to the screaming, uh.
Audiences thousands of miles away. They have strong passions
but little experience, you can hopefully um rebalance things
now. There are forces pushing against that, but I
think there are some interesting possible strategies to do
so. Um, FOR example, social media platforms. And I
recognize fully that there's a a retreat of social
media platforms wanting to do any interventions. Um, TO
shape the information environment, but, um, The they could
flag. Or label Sort of um local or frontline
sources. Um, IN a conflict, they even experimented with
this Twitter at the time it was Twitter, not
X under uh Jack Dorsey did have sort of
um I forget what they called on the ground
lists maybe, um, you could follow in Ukraine with
local journalists and and other influencers and who were
maybe a little bit vetted and um because the
the the platforms have in the geolocations of all
these people. You don't have that publicly. I don't
have that as a researcher, but they know, and
so, um. You know, we could talk about the
mechanics of that, but they could maybe better verify
people and have some um method of um even
algorithmically labeling people so that we got, you know,
an ability to, to know who was really a
local source um in conflict. Now, you know, again,
maybe we're pessimistic about platforms desire to do any
of that. I would argue if I were in
the room with any higher ups in on the
major social media platforms that that's that is an
information adding intervention. And it's pretty light touch, but
um, but still, so I think there are some
creative ways of things we can do. And then
broadly lastly I'd say, I do think the model
should hopefully be looked at and extrapolated back towards
other areas of misperception and misinformation. Um, I was
studying this case, this context, um, and I think
it was maybe an understudied context of factual manipulation
and misperception and war that had some distinctive features,
but you can see maybe how some of the
pieces of that that hadn't, I think, been as
honed in on. Could are still there are strong
parallels and echoes elsewhere. Um, SO, you know, anywhere
where there's high stakes stimuli that people are closer
to. Um, YOU know, uh, whether that's disease or
pollution, or crime, or whatever, you have the potential
for this local accuracy advantage. Now, I do think,
and there's other research looking at this, um, you
know, there's some research. I'm trying to put the
pieces together and say this can hold. Now I
do think that it will depend on um How
publicly visible it is. Um, AS well as its,
it's cost, because War, a lot of what's happening,
we're talking about people moving here and there and
shooting and killing and torturing each other and all
these horrible things. Uh, AND lies about it, but
some of this stuff is out of view. So,
or it's about science. So it's very hard for
people to see the germ theory of disease. Or
it's very hard for people to see the the
uh uh greenhouse effect. Now, that means that people
will, uh, who are closer will uh have a
better knowledge of what is happening descriptively, that their
areas are flooding or burning or shrinking or getting
sick. And so this kind of dynamic will apply
to that, but not maybe on the causal side,
it it depends there. So I think there's some
really interesting threads. I tried to He start to
unravel for others there, um, to think about when
this sort of kind of sharp constraint. Based on
people needing to know. Can sort of apply in
a lot of areas.
One final question then, do you think that this
knowledge could have also policy implications?
Yeah, I think so. I mean, I, I, I
guess that's what I was trying to, some of
what I was trying to get towards, although it
depends what you call policy implication is that um
You know, understanding, um, you know, this landscape of
Who's likely to be factually manipulated in conflict. I
do think it is important because it influences behavior,
uh, can influence behavior. Um, SO, You know, parties
in conflict, um, That we may view as, you
know, having, um, We may be sympathetic towards should
should try to navigate that effectively, or maybe the
international community or UN or others that are trying
to sort of stabilize conflicts need to be aware
of this ready to sort of counter, ready to
target the communities that are most susceptible based on
this theory, which are those that are removed but
aggrieved. Um, RATHER than leafletting and pamphleting and, and
radioing and all the frontline communities that already often
know, um, so I think there is some of
that. Um, I think some of the other policy
implications like I just talked about like, um, being
a little more cautious and pessimistic about some of
these interventionist models that sort of apply best locally.
And, and I, I think that stuff I was
talking about with the platforms, depends whether you call
it a policy implication, but um there are some
ways to try to lift up local voices and,
you know, other things related to that too, like,
um, I think I I have great respect and
admiration. Um, FOR the leading like open source, um,
investigative organizations, Osent organizations, um, like uh Bellingcat, um,
and fact checking organizations like Alt News in India,
or many others around the world, um, and all
the work that they do, which now is really,
you know, some of the funding if they were
getting funds from meta and elsewhere is dried up,
but that stuff and supporting it, um, looking to
it. Um, AS well as these local populations that,
um, it is part of what feeds it. I
think all of that is important.
Great. So the book is again seeing is this
believing why people believe misinformation in war and when
they know better. I'm leaving a link to it
in the description of the interview. And Doctor Silverman,
apart from the book, would you like to tell
people where they can find you and your work
on the internet?
Sure. Um, YOU can always, uh, look me up,
uh, um, have, uh, my website, uh, personal website,
uh. Was it Daniel M Silverman.com, I believe, um,
or, or my faculty my page at at CMU,
and I, I am active on, on social media,
perhaps unwisely. I was on Twitter slash X and
I, I have accounts on all the sites, but
I post on Blue Sky a little more now,
um. And so, um, but I, I continue to
work on all these problems and others, and um
thank you for interviewing me. I look forward to
any engagement.
Great. Thank you so much for taking the time
to come on the show. It's been a big
pleasure to talk with you. Thank you so much.
Hi guys, thank you for watching this interview until
the end. If you liked it, please share it,
leave a like and hit the subscription button. The
show is brought to you by Nights Learning and
Development done differently, check their website at Nights.com and
also please consider supporting the show on Patreon or
PayPal. I would also like to give a huge
thank you to my main patrons and PayPal supporters
Pergo Larsson, Jerry Mullerns, Fredrik Sundo, Bernard Seyches Olaf,
Alex Adam Castle, Matthew Whitting Berarna Wolf, Tim Hollis,
Erika Lenny, John Connors, Philip Fors Connolly. Then the
Matter Robert Windegaruyasi Zup Mark Nes called in Holbrookfield
governor Michael Stormir, Samuel Andre, Francis Forti Agnseroro and
Hal Herzognun Macha Joan Labrant John Jasent and Samuel
Corriere, Heinz, Mark Smith, Jore, Tom Hummel, Sardus France
David Sloan Wilson, asilla dearraujuru and Roach Diego Londono
Correa. Yannick Punteran Rosmani Charlotte blinikolbar Adamhn Pavlostaevsky nale
back medicine, Gary Galman Sam of Zallidrianei Poltonin John
Barboza, Julian Price, Edward Hall Edin Bronner, Douglas Fry,
Franco Bartolotti Gabrielon Corteseus Slelitsky, Scott Zachary Fish Tim
Duffyani Smith John Wieman. Daniel Friedman, William Buckner, Paul
Giorgneau, Luke Lovai Giorgio Theophanous, Chris Williamson, Peter Wozin,
David Williams, Diocosta, Anton Eriksson, Charles Murray, Alex Shaw,
Mary Martinez, Coralli Chevalier, Banggala atheists, Larry D. Lee
Junior, old Eringbo. Sterry Michael Bailey, then Sperber, Robert
Grayigoren, Jeff McMann, Jake Zu, Barnabas radix, Mark Campbell,
Thomas Dovner, Luke Neeson, Chris Storry, Kimberly Johnson, Benjamin
Gilbert, Jessica Nowicki, Linda Brandon, Nicholas Carlsson, Ismael Bensleyman.
George Eoriatis, Valentin Steinman, Perkrolis, Kate van Goller, Alexander
Hubbert, Liam Dunaway, BR Masoud Ali Mohammadi, Perpendicular John
Nertner, Ursulauddinov, Gregory Hastings, David Pinsoff Sean Nelson, Mike
Levin, and Jos Net. A special thanks to my
producers. These are Webb, Jim, Frank Lucas Steffinik, Tom
Venneden, Bernard Curtis Dixon, Benedic Muller, Thomas Trumbull, Catherine
and Patrick Tobin, Gian Carlo Montenegroal Ni Cortiz and
Nick Golden, and to my executive producers Matthew Levender,
Sergio Quadrian, Bogdan Kanivets, and Rosie. Thank you for
all.